Hello. I just wanted to share kind of my
process when I'm doing some maintenance on
my new tank. Um, right here you can see
me just clearing out some little leaves
that had fallen off the other plants that
were in there. I'm putting the I have an
anubius there that I'm putting back into the
rocks because the fish kind of pushed it out.
Um, I'm just putting the hose on right now.
And I like to clip it into the bucket so that
um, the hose stays while I'm draining the tank.
So, right here, I'm just draining the tank. And
if I see anything floating, I'm just putting
it into the end of the tank or the tube so that
it'll go into the bucket. So, this takes a takes
a minute. This is four times speed. So, it's takes
a lot longer than it looks like um, here, but the
fish are always interested. You can see the little
ember tetras checking out the tube and wondering
what's happening to their home right now.
Um, so there we go. I got it emptied. Now
I'm going to put the bucket up on top so
I can clean out the sponge filter that I have
in there. So you just pull it out and squeeze
it into the bucket. And the reason you just
do it in the the tank water is so that you
don't lose any of that beneficial bacteria. Um,
and now you can see me here. I I have a little
hose attachment to my bathroom, so I can just
fill up the tank straight from the faucet. Um,
there can be risks with doing that just cuz
there's chlorine in the water, but I have
some dechlorinator that I'll put in later and
also Utah's water is not super chlorinated,
so it's not quite as dangerous for the
fish. Um, so here I am just filling it up.
And I'm shooting it into the side of the tank so
it doesn't disturb the fish as much and doesn't
move any of the plants too much. Um, so now
it's full. Now I'm going to grab all of the
additives that I put in the water just to help
with plant growth and to dechlorinate the water.
So right there I have some CO2 booster which helps
plants, some leaf zone which is like a fertilizer.
um acute clear here that helps to clump all of
the particles in the water so that the filter
can pick it up. And here it is afterwards. The
water clears up a little bit more over time. Um,
and I usually like to feed them afterward, just
to make sure they're doing okay, and they'll come
up and you can see them swimming around here.
But that's my tank maintenance for my new tank.